---
title: "A Deeper Dive Into the Yankees Trade Deadline"
date: "2025-07-13"
summary: "At the All Star Break, the Yankees are scuffling. They have obvious holes and needs, but just how well will they be addressed in just over 2 weeks time?"
image: "/img/dummyimage.png"
pinned: false
---

The Yankees have hit their June-July swoon, where they scuffle after a strong start to the season. A mixture of poor defense, hitting, and pitching has gotten them to this point where their once near 10 game lead on the division has now evaporated and the chasing pack has caught up. With the trade deadline a few weeks away, they have obvious holes they need to fix, and as a fan of the team, I wanted to take a closer look at some possible routes they can take.

The Yankees have 3 glaring holes: 3B, the starting rotation, and in the bullpen. Starting with thirdbase, after they DFA'd DJ Lemahieu, their need is as apparent as ever. Luckily for them, they have some compelling targets. The main target is Diamondbacks 3B Eugenio Suarez. He is on a tear this season, hitting over 30 homers before the break, and would certainly add that right handed power jolt the Yankees need to their lineup. There are some caveats to this though. He is a rental, meaning that after this season, he can leave the team as a free agent, and do the Yankees justify sending a prospect haul for 2 months of Suarez's services? After all, they did get burned by a rental this past offseason by losing Juan Soto to their crosstown rival Mets. Another thing to point out, though, is that Suarez is not the greatest defender. Despite the bat being a significant upgrade from that position, one where Yankees rank in the bottom 5-10 in overall production, the defense would be only a slight upgrade, which can potentially be troublesome as the Yankees have racked up more than their fair share of errors and defensive miscues as of late. Couple that with the fact that Suarez kind of fits in to the Yankees' lineup problems of the past decade - high power yet high swing and miss. This high risk for reward has continually come back to bite the Yankees especially in the playoffs, where we've seen them get dominated by quality pitching. All in all though, Suarez is an intriguing option because of his power and his bat, but also the Diamondbacks may be in a position to sell, and the Yankees can try do a two-for-one deal by tackling two areas of need by agreeing to a bigger deal involving Suarez and one of the Dbacks' starters in Merrill Kelly or Zac Gallen, both of whom are also on walk years. Certainly an intersting avenue to take, but the Yanks do run the risk of repeating the Mets' mistake of trading away Pete Crow-Armstrong to the Cubs for two months of Javy Baez.

Other 3B options include Ryan McMahon of the Rockies, Ke'Bryan Hayes of the Pirates, and some outside shouts like Yoan Moncada of the Angels. McMahon and Hayes are other interesting options. I believe the Yankees have been intrigued by McMahon for a few years now, and with good reason. Yes he does play in Colorado and his home and away splits are not the best, but he's a great defender, and on a team like the Yankees, he wouldn't have to be the main guy. He could easily slot in the middle or towards the bottom of the lineup and provide left handed spark, with a swing that can play well to the short porch in Yankee stadium. Ke'Bryan Hayes is another option, and similar to McMahon, he is an excellent defender, in my opinion the best defender in the 3B position in the league. His bat has a lot of work to do, but again, he wouldn't be pressured to be the main guy in the lineup. Moncada is a wildcard, and personally the one I am least excited about. He's had an okay season, but truly has never lived up to the hype he had as a prospect with the White Sox. Again, any of these options would drastically improve the Yankees at 3B, given how poor they have been all season long from this position.

Moving on to starting pitching, the Yankees do have a need here. With Gerrit Cole's injury before the season's start, there were many question marks surrouding the starting staff, however Fried and Rodon have done well to stabilize the top end, both earning All Star nods, however the back end still remains a bit of a concern. Clarke Schmidt had only recently returned from injury and pitched decently, but has now suffered long term injury after undergoing Tommy John surgery. Ryan Yarbrough, who was slotted as the 5th starter earlier in the season, also has missed significant time, and Marcus Stroman has been uninspiring ever since his return. The Yankees do get Luis Gil, the reigning AL Rookie of the Year winner around the end of the month, but it would be wise for the team not to tax him too much early on and let him build his own rhythm once again. Newly called up rookie Cam Schlittler has shown some promise, after having a strong debut, but has to figure out his command as he continues to grow and develop. Interesting targets include the aforementioned Kelly and Gallen from Arizona, as well as Minnesota's Joe Ryan, and Miami's Sandy Alcantara. There are rumors that the Padres may want to move off Dylan Cease, who is also on a walk year, but that seems unlikely. The market does not seem to be pointing to a strong starting pitching market, so the Yankees may instead pivot and address what's arguably their second biggest need - their bullpen.

The Yankees bullpen has been dreadful as of late, posting over a 6 ERA as a unit, and in most cases, singlehandedly costing them games. Luke Weaver dealt with injury but has since returned, though not as effective as in the past. Devin Williams, after a horrid start to his Yankees tenure, has been good of late, but there's still some questions and concerns with him having the ball in the 9th inning. Jonathan Loaisiga also hasn't been his old self. Big names the Yankees can target are Pirates closer David Bednar, a name that has been floated around with the Yankees in the past. Other options include Rockies' Jake Bird, who not a closer, has filthy stuff that can certainly play well on the Yankees especially under pitching coach Matt Blake. Other high end relievers include Giants' Camilo Doval, Tyler Rogers, Cardinals' Ryan Helsely, A's Mason Miller, Padres' Robert Suarez, who like Cease is also on a walk year, Guardians' Emmanuel Clase should they decide to sell, and the best reliever on the market, Twins' Jhoan Duran. 

That being said, the Yankees do have sustained injuries that they look to get back at some point. As previously mentioned, Gil and Yarbrough will return soon, but this should not be enough to justify standing pat at the deadline and letting things just play out. The Yankees need to make trades this deadline if they want to get back on track. I personally think that the Yankees will pivot away from Suarez, and the likes of Cease and Robert Suarez from the Padres should they be available, as they are rentals. I do believe that the Yankees would prefer players they would have control over, as both Weaver and Williams are set to be free agents at the end of the season. This, in turn, would likely take them off the board for Rogers and Helsely. I also think that they will look towards McMahon or Hayes for 3B, and also look to do a few supplementary trades to acquire better depth, thus moving away from the likes of Escarra and Peraza. I do believe that if they want to trade for a starter, they would have to face a heafty asking price, and it seems that the Yankees do not want to move their top prospects in George Lombard Jr. and Spencer Jones. They also seem to believe in Cam Schlittler and seem hesitant to include him trade packages, which would make it tough to trade for a starter, and should make converstations around relievers interesting, depending on the price that the top relievers like Duran and Miller go for. Much of the Yankees season hangs on what happens in two weeks, and if Cashman and the front office are aggressive and push the right buttons, it can be that jolt they are looking for to righting the ship and getting themselves back on track.