---
title: "MLB's Pitching Epidemic"
date: "2025-07-20"
summary: "In an era where pitching, especially starting pitching, is more important than ever, teams, and marquee names, are struggling to stay on the field. Is the league truly at a point in its evolution where your team's ace will inevitably suffer a season ending injury?"
image: "/img/dummyimage.png"
pinned: false
---

In the current day and age in today's game, pitching, especially top notch starting pitching, is paramount, and is often the key difference between winning and losing. A formula that really was kicked started in the late 2010s by the Houston Astros, every championship team in the last few seasons had a mix of a strong starting staff, lockdown bullpens, or a dominant ace (or two). 

However, as pitchers evolve and spin the ball more, generate more velocity, and become even harder to hit, the quicker do many find themselves on the IL, or even worse, out for the season. The last few seasons has seen some of the game's greatest aces undergo Tommy John surgery, such as Jacob deGrom, Spencer Strider, and most recently, Gerrit Cole. It seems almost at this point, that it's inevitable, rather than avoidable, that your team's number 1 will have to suffer the same fate - a scary reality for the game.

Year after year big names go down, and for the case of a team like the Dodgers, whose team and especially pitching staff on paper is among the league's very best, have yet to see their big offseason signing and 2 time CY Young award winner Blake Snell see the mound. After poaching the left hander from the rival Padres, signing international free agent Roki Sasaki from Japan, and other moves in the lineup to bolster a championship roster, it was almost a foregone conclusion by many that the Dodgers would waltz their way back to the Fall Classic, at a minimum.

But after a strong start, the Dodgers of late have faltered, losing 11 of their last 14, including being swept by the Brewers twice, once before the All Star break, and once again after. And yes, while the lineup is struggling, it's no secret that they are severely suffering from injury, especially on the mound. A potential 4 headed monster in the rotation of Snell, Glasnow, Sasaki, and Yamamoto has all but been imagination up until this point, with Yamamoto being the only one of the four to be healthy and consistent this season. Snell, as previously mentioned, has battled injury and has yet to pitch for the Dodgers, while Sasaki was shut down after a few starts into the season. In addition, key bullpen arms Michael Kopech, Blake Treinen, Bursdar Graterol, Kyle Hurt, and Evan Phillips find themselves on the 60 day IL, along with starter River Ryan. Glasnow, as well as Shohei Ohtani, have only recently worked their way back, with the Dodgers extremely careful with the latter given his own injury history on the mound. Even Clayton Kershaw, who worked his way back from injury to eclipse 3,000 strikeouts, has had his fair share of injury problems, especially in the last few years as he has continued to age. But as LA looks to right the ship, a key concern is if they have the arms to do it.

This isn't just a Dodgers problem though, it's a league wide problem. When Gerrit Cole experienced forearm tightness in Spring Training after a few sub par starts (even for Spring Training standards), many knew what was coming once that news broke. And of recent for the reigning American League champions, Clarke Schmidt suffered the same fate. They also have yet to see reigning AL Rookie of the Year winner Luis Gil, who is only know getting ready for his first rehab appearance.

Around the league, the injuries area widespread. The Diamondbacks lost their free agent acquisition and 2024 AL CY Young nominee Corbin Burnes. The Braves got back Spencer Strider, but the zip isn't quite there compared to his pre-injury starts, though he is slowly ramping himself back up. His counterpart, and reigning NL CY Young winner, Chris Sale is currently sidelined (though not an arm injury but rather a rib injury as a result of diving to catch a popup). Bryce Miller finds himself on the 15 day IL for the Mariners. Aaron Nola hasn't been himself for the Phillies this season, and has been on the 60 day IL, with a potential return soon. Shane McClanahan hasn't pitched for Tampa Bay in over a year. And I would be remised to not even mention the state of Baltimore's pitching staff. Yes, they did not do a good enough job in the offseason to fill out the rotation, but it cannot be overlooked that almost their entire rotation, as well as key pieces in the lineup, are on the shelf.

These are just a short list from **this season** of big names that have sustained some form of injury. As amazing it is, and rightly so, to witness such dominant pitching, coupled with high heat and unhittable offspeed and breaking pitches, the concerns are there. It is always a treat to watch Paul Skenes, Tarik Skubal and Jacob Misiorowski go about their crafts, light up the radar gun, and dominate on a night to night basis, but given the history of the game's best pitchers the last few seasons, its unfortunate that a conversation that can be brought up regarding if any of them can maintain this level while consistently staying on the field. 

And yes, injuries are a part of sports, and Tommy John isn't a new injury. In fact the likes of Jacob deGrom, Nathan Eovaldi, both of whom have had it twice, and Justin Verlander, have undergone the procedure and have come back strong. deGrom was an All Star this year and is quietly back to his dominant self, Eovaldi is back to an elite level, and Verlander was able to return and contribute to Houston's 2022 championship team. So its not entirely out of the question that if a player were to go down with this sort if injury that it's the end of the line for them. However, the sharp rise of arm and elbow injuries for pitchers in the last 3 to 5 years is definitely a cause for concern, and the MLB should definitely look into, if they aren't already, how to better prevent its rise and to protect its players.