---
title: "With the Trade Deadline One Week Away, the Market Remains as Unclear as Ever"
date: "2025-07-23"
summary: "There is 1 weeek until this year's trade deadline, and only a handful of teams are clear sellers. With so many teams still in the mix, how much can change before the 31st, and how will it affect the market?"
image: "/img/dummyimage.png"
pinned: false
---

The MLB trade deadline is 8 days away, and there's a lot of question marks surrounding a market that, in comparison to past seasons, is slower and more unclear than ever before. With the expansion of the playoff format introduced a few seasons ago, more teams find themselves in the mix, and only a handful of teams in each league as of right now can definitively call themselves sellers. 

A big talking point surrounding this year's deadline is Diamondbacks 3B Eugenio Suarez, who at the age of 34 is lighting up baseball with 36 so far this year, tied with potential future teammate Aaron Judge in second in the league, behind Cal Raleigh's 39. The dilemma surrounding him is not whether or not it would be worth trading for 2 months of a high power but high strikeout bat, but what would the package look like. 

In the case of the Yankees, one team picked out as a favorite to land the 3B, who's need at 3rd base is as clear as day, with their 3B ranks this season hanging among league worst, Suarez would definitely be a substantial upgrade to what they already have. But would it be worth potentially trading the likes of Spencer Jones, who is setting AAA alight, batting over .400 with an OPS north of 1.300, for two months of Suarez, who will plug that hole in 3B, but again, isn't a premier defensive third baseman, and falls into sort of the Yankees 'trap' of the last decade of filling a lineup with high power but high strikeout, a recipe that has continually been exposed by superior pitching in the postseason. Both sides of the coin are interesting, as undoubtedly, Suarez is an upgrade, but the risk is there, as well as trading Spencer Jones, as the situation may end up being eerily reminiscent of the Mets trading Pete Crow-Armstrong, now a budding star in the league, for 2 months of Javier Baez. Perhaps a package deal for Suarez, and one of Merrill Kelly or Zac Gallen, also in walk years, is what the Yankees are looking for, however the risk of rentals has come back to bite them in previous years, as recently as this past winter.

Suarez, conversely, would be an interesting fit in Seattle, who's pitching, as projected coming into this year, is almost singlehandedly (other than Cal Raleigh's heroics), keeping them in the AL wildcard picture. Suarez, who spent 2 years before his Arizona tenure, in Seattle would be familiar with the scene, and though the second of those two years saw him underperform with an OPS in the .700s, the first year was still very productive, with him hitting over 31 homers on the year. But again, in that ball park, and the high swing and miss potential that Suarez has, is that something the Mariners front office wants to revisit? 

I've spent a lot of time talking about Eugenio Suarez, and deservedly so I'd say, as he's the headliner in an unclear market. And again, he may not even be dealt to either of the two teams I've mentioned. It all comes down to whatever package Arizona deems the best for their situation, as although they are trending towards losing Suarez in the midst of them trying to battle back in the standings, they do have his replacement, Jordan Lawlar, eagerly waiting in AAA.

One other interesting perspective is that Suarez may singlehandedly pull the Diamondbacks (sitting at 50-50) into the wildcard race, as they are one of those 'gray-area' in between teams that's hard to diagnose whether or not they are sellers. There is an argument to be had that especially following Suarez's scalding hot start following the All Star break, Arizona may find themselves in a position where they can justify to themselves that they are buyers. Other teams in similar positions include the Angels, Rays, Twins and Royals, who have some leapfrogging to do in the standings to propel themselves into wildcard spots, but it's not entirely out of the question, especially if they play well the next 8 days. Team's futures for this season and beyond seemingly rely on how they perform on the field in this one week span, setting up an intriguing deadline as teams will quickly find out their respective current state of affairs.