---
title: "Recapping a Wild Trade Deadline"
date: "2025-08-01"
summary: "The 2025 MLB Trade Deadline has come and gone, and what a wild deadline we saw! Let's recap everything we saw, single out some early winners and losers, and how this affects the outlook for the rest of the season as we march towards the playoffs."
image: "/img/dummyimage.png"
pinned: false
---

This year's trade deadline was hectic and busy, providing the fans with one of the more memorable and 'great' trade deadlines in recent memory. Teams went all in, teams stood pat, others looked to rebuild for the future, and others are left our heads scratching. Let's take a closer look at the big moves and the outlook of this year's biggest players.

I think the best place to start is with the biggest trade of the deadline, or at least one that got many heads spinning and people talking. It's the Padres trade for Mason Miller. The full trade was RHP closer Mason Miller to the Padres along with LHP starter JP Sears for 3 pitching prospects, Braden Nett, Henry Baez, and Eduarniel Núñez, with the focal point of the trade consensus #3 prospect in all of baseball per Baseball of America SS Leodalis De Vries. This trade rocked the baseball world, especially with  AJ Preller's aggression to get his guy, a young electric backend arm in Miller to join an already loaded Padres bullpen. Preller's willingness to part with a top prospect, one that's arguably baseball's top prospect, certainly received some mixed reviews, as some argue that trading such an asset for a reliever, no matter if a household name or how good he is, would in the long run be worth it. But AJ Preller doesn't care about the long run. He has a team that he believes can win **now**, and his willingness to push his chips to the middle of the table and cash in on win-now assets is in my opinion respectable and admirable - it's something that almost no other GM in baseball would do. The Padres also added 2 bats, acquiring DH Ryan O'Hearn and OF Ramon Laureano from the Orioles, providing extra depth and respectable bats to an already potent lineup.

I highlighted how the Padres now have a 'super pen', and they're not the only team to go this route (more on that later), but on the other side, for the A's, the future is certainly bright. I was part of the crowd coming into the season that believed that the A's with their young core can cause a few surprises, and maybe come the end of the year be in an outside-looking-in close fight for a wildcard spot. While this season hasn't gone exactly to that plan, there's still a lot of optimism for the A's. Yes, from a plain black-and-white lens, it does seem like the A's of old, trading away an All Star talent, like Matt Olson, Matt Champan, Marcus Semien, for prospects that we can agree, haven't panned out. However, to get the #3 prospect, who can be argued can be the #1 prospect, to slot into an infield that boasts the likely American League Rookie of the Year in Jacob Wilson, as well as likely runner up or top 3 finisher in AL ROY Nick Kurtz, de Vries can be part of a young, budding A's core that can bring them back to the spotlight. Especially if he pans out, in a premier position, as a 'Francisco Lindor' type with more power, there's a lot to be excited for in this young project even though they currently, and for the past few seasons, are at the bottom of their division.

I alluded to the idea of 'super pens' previously, and two other teams that have gone this route are both New York teams. Let's start with the Mets, who have traded for rentals in Ryan Helsley and Tyler Rogers. The back end of their bullpen looks to be really strong, with closer Edwin Diaz locking down the final 3 outs. In addition, they added CF Cedric Mullins from the Orioles to strengthen their outfield, and their center field hole in particular. Perhaps some fans are a bit concerned or dissapointed that they did not add a starter, but the market never shaped itself to be a starter's market, and pivoting to the bullpen is, in my opinion, a very strong move considering the importance of pitching, especially in the playoffs.

Moving on to the other New York team, the Yankees did a similar route, trading for 3 big time bullpen pieces while also addressing needs at 3B and depth and utility pieces. Prior to the deadline, the Yankees acquired 3B Ryan McMahon from the Rockies, and that trade has already paid dividends as there's a night and day difference in both defense and production from third, something the Yankees desperately needed. They also acquired SS Ahmed Rosario from the Nationals and CF Austin Slater from the White Sox, two bats that hit lefties well and can serve as good depth pieces. On deadline day, they traded for another backup SS / utility in Jose Cabellero from the Rays, and they headlined their bullpen overhaul by acquiring RHP closers David Bednar and Camilo Doval from the Pirates and Giants respectively, and RHP Jake Bird from the Rockies. The Yankees bullpen changed overnight, giving manager Aaron Boone many options in the backend with Bednar and Doval joining the likes of Weaver and Williams. Perhaps the cherry on top of the Yankees' deadline was that GM Brian Cashman was able to keep their top prospects in George Lombard Jr, Spencer Jones, and Cam Schlittler, all of whom were being asked for by other teams.

But perhaps, in my opinion, the *best* move of the deadline - the Phillies acquiring Jhoan Duran from the Twins. Perhaps not the biggest trade in terms of hype or news surrounding it, but Duran in my opinion was the best reliever or closer available in the market, and to join a Phillies team that's firing on all cylinders, and outside of perhaps needing help in the outfield, seemed pretty set, having a flamethrower of a closer to lock down the final 3 outs of any game, especially in the playoffs, is gamechanger. The Phillies, of course, also added OF Harrison Bader, which should help their need in the outfield, as they lacked the production from there all season long, and Bader this year, has had a bounceback of sorts and has been productive.

Moving away quickly from pitching, the Mariners reunited with Eugenio Suarez, in what turned out to be a lack of a bidding war for the thirdbaseman, and also paired him with his teammate this year in Arizona in Josh Naylor. The Mariners massively upgraded their lineup, which now boasts home run leader Cal Raleigh, Randy Arozarena, and Julio Rodriguez. Pairing that with their excellent pitching staff, they're poised to make some noise in both the division and in October.

However, speaking of the Twins, it was quite the firesale we witnessed. 11 total trades, one of which included trading SS Carlos Correa back to his former team in the Houston Astros *while* still taking on some of the salary, speaks volumes as to where this franchise is headed in the next few seasons. Maybe because of new ownership they wanted to start with a blank slate, but selling off almost every key piece of your team bar Byron Buxton and Joe Ryan certainly is a major blow to the morale of the players and their loyal diehard fans. And speaking of Joe Ryan, perhaps the marquee starter that was floated around to be dealt, was not dealt, creating drama and confusion especially among the Red Sox faithful, who believed that the deal was completed when MLB on Fox incorrectly tweeted that the deal had gone through, just for news to surface after the deadline passed that it 'was not even close.'

Certainly a wild deadline, and strengthening the bullpens were certainly a theme. For winners, I'd definitely say both the Padres and the A's won, as the Padres strengthened an already deep bullpen, while the A's lock down their future infield. The Yankees and the Mets are also winners in my opinion, as although neither team got a starter, their bullpens both drastically improved, and they also addresssed certain needs, like the Yankees' need for a thirdbaseman and the Mets' need for a centerfielder. The Phillies also had a great deadline, despite not making a plethora of moves, but that's because they didn't need to. But the moves they made were certainly impactful, and to add what's in my opinion the best closer on the market to a team who's lineup is producing and starting rotation is dominating, that's a recipe for success. 

Other teams that I didn't really mention who I thought had a good deadline were the Blue Jays, adding Shane Bieber, though injured and hasn't pitched in a year, if he can get any sort of semblance of his former self, that's a good move. I really do like the Blue Jays moves, but I think that they don't get talked about enough as they get overshadowed by what the Yankees did, as well as what the Red Sox weren't able to do. Lastly, to round off, I think the Mariners obviously had a great deadline, and I would also throw the Astros there. They're getting Yordan Alvarez soon, as well as Jeremy Pena, and with Correa's willingness to play 3rd for his former team, one that he experienced so much success with, should put Houston right back on track to possibly another ALCS appearence. 

As for losers, I'd definitely put the Red Sox there. Their trade deadline included Steven Matz and Dustin May, moves that certainly didn't 'wow' the fanbase, especially given how aggressively (or non aggressively, based on who's reporting) they persued Joe Ryan. What stings even more for the Red Sox was that they missed out on Ryan, while also seeing teams around them in both the division, in the Blue Jays and Yankees, and even the Rays acquiring Griffin Jax, as well as in the Wild Card, in The Mariners and the Texas Rangers, who added Merrill Kelly, all improve to varying degrees around them. Other losers in my opinion include the Twins, who's firesale was devastating, and with a lack of exciting or top prospects in their farm system really leaves a bleak future ahead, as well as the Angels, who once again had a head-scratching deadline, and given the buyer's market in relief pitchers, question marks surround their decision to stand pat with Kenley Jansen.

Of course, these are just preliminary gut reactions to the trade deadline. These winners or losers are simply based off the names moved and to what team. Now, it's on the teams to translate these moves on the field to determine who really won or lost, and it's certainly shaping up to be an exciting race in these final two months of the season.